cultivation/docs/5_domain_knowledge_and_curricula/biology/RNA_MODELING/Pillar1_Biophysical_Modeling/index.md, before:

---
title: Pillar 1 Foundations: RNA Biochemistry & Thermodynamics
tags:
  - RNA
  - biophysics
  - foundations
---

# Pillar 1 Foundations: RNA Biochemistry & Thermodynamics

Welcome to your personal knowledge base for RNA biophysics! This section will serve as the root for all foundational concepts, diagrams, and summaries related to RNA structure and thermodynamics.

## Overview
This pillar covers:
- RNA nucleotide structure
- The phosphodiester backbone
- RNA vs. DNA comparison
- Thermodynamic principles
- Energetic contributions to RNA stability
- Environmental factors affecting RNA

## Table of Contents
1. [RNA Nucleotide Structure](./1_RNA_Nucleotide_Structure/index.md)
2. [Phosphodiester Backbone](./2_Phosphodiester_Backbone/index.md)
3. [RNA vs DNA Comparison](./3_RNA_vs_DNA_Comparison/index.md)
4. [Thermodynamic Principles](./4_Thermodynamic_Principles/index.md)
5. [Energetic Contributions to RNA Stability](./5_Energetic_Contributions/index.md)
6. [Environmental Factors](./6_Environmental_Factors/index.md)
7. [Quizzes and Assessments](./Quizzes_and_Assessments/index.md)

---

> **Tip:** Use this root document to maintain a high-level map of your learning journey. Update the table of contents as you add more detailed notes, diagrams, and cross-references.

## Metadata
- Created: 2025-06-03
- Maintainer: tomriddle1
- Knowledge Management System: Markdown (compatible with Obsidian, MkDocs, Notion export)

---

## Next Steps
- Build out each subsection as you progress through the curriculum.
- Link related concepts and maintain bidirectional references for deep learning.
- Regularly review and update this root as your understanding evolves.

Commit message:

📝 docs(biology): update RNA modeling pillar documentation
- rename roadmap_vSigma.md to archive and mark as archived
- add new roadmap_Cultivation_Integrated_v1.0.md for updated planning
- include suggested learning path in Pillar 1 Biophysical Modeling index.md
- update metadata with date modified, status, and version for clarity

cultivation/docs/5_domain_knowledge_and_curricula/biology/RNA_MODELING/Pillar1_Biophysical_Modeling/index.md, after:

---
title: Pillar 1 Foundations: RNA Biochemistry & Thermodynamics
tags:
  - RNA
  - biophysics
  - foundations
date_modified: "2025-06-04"
status: "complete"
version: "1.1"
---

# Pillar 1 Foundations: RNA Biochemistry & Thermodynamics

Welcome to your personal knowledge base for RNA biophysics! This section will serve as the root for all foundational concepts, diagrams, and summaries related to RNA structure and thermodynamics.

## Overview
This pillar covers:
- RNA nucleotide structure
- The phosphodiester backbone
- RNA vs. DNA comparison
- Thermodynamic principles
- Energetic contributions to RNA stability
- Environmental factors affecting RNA

## Suggested Learning Path
For a structured understanding of RNA biophysical modeling foundations, we recommend progressing through the subsections in the following order. Each topic builds upon the previous ones, providing a coherent learning experience:

1.  **[RNA Nucleotide Structure](./1_RNA_Nucleotide_Structure/index.md):** Start with the basic building blocks.
2.  **[Phosphodiester Backbone](./2_Phosphodiester_Backbone/index.md):** Learn how these blocks connect to form the RNA polymer.
3.  **[RNA vs DNA Comparison](./3_RNA_vs_DNA_Comparison/index.md):** Understand the unique chemical nature of RNA.
4.  **[Thermodynamic Principles](./4_Thermodynamic_Principles/index.md):** Grasp the fundamental energetic rules governing RNA behavior.
5.  **[Energetic Contributions to RNA Stability](./5_Energetic_Contributions/index.md):** Delve into the specific forces that stabilize RNA structures.
6.  **[Environmental Factors](./6_Environmental_Factors/index.md):** Explore how external conditions influence RNA structure and stability.
7.  **[Quizzes and Assessments](./Quizzes_and_Assessments/index.md):** After covering the material, use the quizzes to test your understanding.
8.  **[Concept Map](./Concept_Map.md):** Visualize the relationships between all topics in Pillar 1.

## Table of Contents
1. [RNA Nucleotide Structure](./1_RNA_Nucleotide_Structure/index.md)
2. [Phosphodiester Backbone](./2_Phosphodiester_Backbone/index.md)
3. [RNA vs DNA Comparison](./3_RNA_vs_DNA_Comparison/index.md)
4. [Thermodynamic Principles](./4_Thermodynamic_Principles/index.md)
5. [Energetic Contributions to RNA Stability](./5_Energetic_Contributions/index.md)
6. [Environmental Factors](./6_Environmental_Factors/index.md)
7. [Quizzes and Assessments](./Quizzes_and_Assessments/index.md)
8. [Concept Map](./Concept_Map.md)

---

> **Tip:** Use this root document to maintain a high-level map of your learning journey. Update the table of contents as you add more detailed notes, diagrams, and cross-references.

## Metadata
- Created: 2025-06-03
- Maintainer: tomriddle1
- Knowledge Management System: Markdown (compatible with Obsidian, MkDocs, Notion export)

---

## Next Steps
- Build out each subsection as you progress through the curriculum.
- Link related concepts and maintain bidirectional references for deep learning.
- Regularly review and update this root as your understanding evolves.
